.TH EMOJIPROMPT 5 "github.com/nilp0inter/emojiprompt" "File Formats Manual"
.
.SH NAME
.P
config.ini \- configuration file for emojiprompt
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This manual page describes the configuration file used by all versions of
emojiprompt.
.P
emojiprompt uses the INI file format for configuration, meaning
variable-value-assignments sorted into sections.
.
.P
.RS
.EX
[section]
# This is a comment
variable = value;
.EE
.RE
.
.P
On startup emojiprompt will look for a file in the following locations, in this
order:
.IP \(bu 2
\fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/emojiprompt/config.ini\fR (or \fB$HOME/.config/emojiprompt/config.ini\fR
should \fB$XDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR be unset)
.IP \(bu 2
\fB/etc/emojiprompt/config.ini\fR
.
.
.SH SECTION: [general]
.P
\fBfont\-regular\fR = \fI<font description>\fR;
.RS
Font used for description, buttons, error message and emojis.
Defaults to "sans:size=14".
.RE
.
.P
\fBfont\-large\fR = \fI<font description>\fR;
.RS
Font used for title.
Defaults to "sans:size=20".
.RE
.
.P
\fBemoji\-count\fR = \fI<positive integer>\fR;
.RS
Number of emojis to display for password feedback.
Defaults to 3.
.RE
.
.P
\fBemoji\-size\fR = \fI<positive integer>\fR;
.RS
Size of emoji display area in pixels.
Defaults to 24.
.RE
.
.P
\fBemoji\-table\fR = \fI'<comma-separated emoji list>'\fR;
.RS
Custom emoji set for password feedback. Must be quoted and comma-separated.
If not specified, uses default emoji set.
Example: emoji-table = '🔒,🔑,🛡️,🔐,🔓';
.RE
.
.P
\fBbutton\-inner\-padding\fR = \fI<positive integer>\fR;
.RS
Padding around the labels of the buttons.
Defaults to 5.
.RE
.
.P
\fBvertical\-padding\fR = \fI<positive integer>\fR;
.RS
Top and bottom padding of the dialog prompt window.
Defaults to 10.
.RE
.
.P
\fBhorizontal\-padding\fR = \fI<positive integer>\fR;
.RS
Left and right padding of the dialog prompt window.
Defaults to 15.
.RE
.
.P
\fBborder\fR = \fI<positive integer>\fR;
.RS
Width of the border of the dialog prompt window.
Defaults to 2.
.RE
.
.P
\fBbutton\-border\fR = \fI<positive integer>\fR;
.RS
Width of the border around buttons.
Defaults to 1.
.RE
.
.P
\fBcorner\-radius\fR = \fI<positive integer>\fR;
.RS
Radius for rounded corners of the dialog window.
Set to 0 for square corners.
Defaults to 10.
.RE
.
.
.SH SECTION: [tty]
.P
This section configures the TTY fallback mode when Wayland is not available.
.
.P
\fBuse\-emoji\fR = \fI<true|false>\fR;
.RS
Whether to use emojis in TTY mode. If true, auto-detects terminal emoji support.
If false, uses ASCII emoticons instead.
Defaults to true.
.RE
.
.P
\fBemoticon\fR = \fI'<emoticon>'\fR;
.RS
Define custom emoticons for TTY mode. Can be specified multiple times.
Each emoticon must be quoted and terminated with semicolon.
Emoticons are center-padded for consistent display width.
Example:
.EX
emoticon = '^_^';
emoticon = 'O_O';
emoticon = '>_<';
emoticon = ':-)';
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SH SECTION: [colours]
.P
All colours must be specified as hexadecimal in the following format:
\fB0xRRGGBB\fR or \fB0xRRGGBBAA\fR where AA is alpha (transparency).
.
.P
\fBbackground\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Background colour of the dialog prompt window.
Defaults to 0x262626.
.RE
.
.P
\fBborder\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Colour of the border of the dialog prompt window.
Defaults to 0x949494.
.RE
.
.P
\fBtext\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Colour of the text.
Defaults to 0xffffff.
.RE
.
.P
\fBerror\-text\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Colour of the error text.
Defaults to 0xcc3333.
.RE
.
.P
\fBpin\-background\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Background colour of the emoji display area.
Defaults to 0x585858.
.RE
.
.P
\fBpin\-border\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Border colour of the emoji display area.
Defaults to 0xc7c7c7.
.RE
.
.P
\fBok\-button\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Background colour of the ok button.
Defaults to 0x5d9b5d.
.RE
.
.P
\fBok\-button\-border\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Border colour of the ok button.
Defaults to 0x5d9b5d.
.RE
.
.P
\fBok\-button\-text\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Text colour of the ok button.
Defaults to 0xffffff.
.RE
.
.P
\fBcancel\-button\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Background colour of the cancel button.
Defaults to 0x585858.
.RE
.
.P
\fBcancel\-button\-border\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Border colour of the cancel button.
Defaults to 0xc7c7c7.
.RE
.
.P
\fBcancel\-button\-text\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Text colour of the cancel button.
Defaults to 0xffffff.
.RE
.
.P
\fBnot\-ok\-button\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Background colour of the not-ok button.
Defaults to 0xcc9933.
.RE
.
.P
\fBnot\-ok\-button\-border\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Border colour of the not-ok button.
Defaults to 0xcc9933.
.RE
.
.P
\fBnot\-ok\-button\-text\fR = \fI<colour>\fR;
.RS
Text colour of the not-ok button.
Defaults to 0xffffff.
.RE
.
.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
Example configuration file with custom emoji and emoticon sets:
.
.RS
.EX
[general]
emoji-count = 5;
emoji-size = 32;
# Security-themed emojis
emoji-table = '🔒,🔑,🛡️,🔐,🔓';

[tty]
use-emoji = false;
# Custom emoticons for TTY
emoticon = '^_^';
emoticon = 'O_O';
emoticon = '>_<';
emoticon = ':-)';
emoticon = ':-(';
emoticon = ':-D';

[colours]
background = 0x1a1b26;
border = 0x6699CC;
text = 0xCCCCCC;
error-text = 0xF2777A;
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SH EMOJI THEMES
.P
You can create custom emoji themes by setting emoji-table:
.
.RS
.EX
# Nature theme
emoji-table = '🌸,🌺,🌻,🌷,🌹,🌵,🌲,🌴';

# Space theme
emoji-table = '🚀,🛸,🌟,⭐,🌙,☄️,🌍,🪐';

# Animal theme
emoji-table = '🐶,🐱,🐭,🐹,🐰,🦊,🐻,🐼';
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR emojiprompt (1),
.BR pinentry-emojiprompt (1),
.BR emojiprompt-ssh-askpass (1)