.TH EMOJIPROMPT-SSH-ASKPASS 1 "github.com/nilp0inter/emojiprompt" "General Commands Manual"
.
.SH NAME
.P
emojiprompt-ssh-askpass \- Emoji-based ssh-askpass implementation
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY emojiprompt\-ssh\-askpass
.YS
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The emojiprompt-ssh-askpass executable described in this manual page represents
the ssh-askpass implementation based on emojiprompt, providing emoji-based
password feedback for SSH operations.
.
.P
When entering SSH passwords or passphrases, emojiprompt-ssh-askpass displays
emojis or emoticons instead of asterisks, helping users verify they've typed
their password correctly before submission.
.
.P
For general information on emojiprompt, read
.BR emojiprompt (1).
.
.
.SH USE WITH SSH
.P
To use emojiprompt-ssh-askpass as the askpass program for
.BR ssh (1)
as well as for programs that wrap it, like
.BR git (1)
or 
.BR rsync (1),
you need to set and export the \fBSSH_ASKPASS\fR env var to the path to the
emojiprompt-ssh-askpass executable.
.
.P
For example, in your shell configuration:
.RS
.EX
export SSH_ASKPASS=/usr/local/bin/emojiprompt-ssh-askpass
export SSH_ASKPASS_REQUIRE=prefer
.EE
.RE
.
.P
By default, ssh will only use the configured askpass program if it is not
attached to a terminal.
To force ssh to always use the askpass program, set and export
\fBSSH_ASKPASS_REQUIRE=force\fR.
.
.
.SH FEATURES
.P
emojiprompt-ssh-askpass provides enhanced visual feedback for SSH operations:
.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBEmoji feedback:\fR Shows emojis instead of asterisks while typing passwords
.IP \(bu 2
\fBTwo-stage verification:\fR Press Enter once to verify emojis, again to submit
.IP \(bu 2
\fBWayland native:\fR Full Wayland support with layer-shell protocol
.IP \(bu 2
\fBTTY fallback:\fR Automatically uses TTY mode when Wayland is unavailable
.IP \(bu 2
\fBCustomizable:\fR Configure emoji sets and colors via config file
.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.P
emojiprompt-ssh-askpass uses the same configuration file as emojiprompt.
See
.BR emojiprompt (5)
for detailed configuration options.
.
.P
Example configuration for SSH use:
.RS
.EX
[general]
emoji-count = 4;
emoji-table = '🔐,🗝️,🔑,🔒';

[tty]
use-emoji = true;
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.P
emojiprompt-ssh-askpass will exit with one of the following codes:
.
.TS
tab(@), left, box;
c | c
rB | l.
\fBValue\fR@\fBExplanation\fR
_
0@User triggered "ok" (by pressing Enter twice or clicking the button).
_
1@User triggered "cancel" (by pressing Escape or clicking the button) or an error occurred.
.TE
.
.
.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.P
Once configured, emojiprompt-ssh-askpass will be used automatically for:
.
.IP \(bu 2
Adding SSH keys:
.RS
.B ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
SSH connections requiring password:
.RS
.B ssh user@server
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
Git operations over SSH:
.RS
.B git push origin main
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
Rsync over SSH:
.RS
.B rsync -avz file.txt user@server:/path/
.RE
.
.
.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
.P
If emojiprompt-ssh-askpass is not being invoked:
.
.IP \(bu 2
Ensure SSH_ASKPASS is exported in your shell environment
.IP \(bu 2
Try setting SSH_ASKPASS_REQUIRE=force to override terminal detection
.IP \(bu 2
Verify the executable path is correct and the file is executable
.IP \(bu 2
Check that Wayland is running or TTY fallback is working
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.P
.MT github.com/nilp0inter
nilp0inter
.ME
.P
Based on wayprompt by Leon Henrik Plickat.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR emojiprompt (1),
.BR emojiprompt (5),
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh-add (1),
.BR ssh-agent (1)