.TH PINENTRY-EMOJIPROMPT 1 "github.com/nilp0inter/emojiprompt" "General Commands Manual"
.
.SH NAME
.P
pinentry-emojiprompt \- Emoji-based pinentry implementation for GnuPG
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY pinentry\-emojiprompt
.YS
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The pinentry-emojiprompt executable described in this manual page represents the
pinentry implementation based on emojiprompt, providing emoji-based password
feedback for GnuPG operations.
.
.P
When entering passwords or passphrases for GPG operations, pinentry-emojiprompt
displays emojis or emoticons instead of asterisks, helping users verify they've
typed their password correctly before submission.
.
.P
For general information on emojiprompt, read
.BR emojiprompt (1).
.
.
.SH USE WITH GPG
.P
To use pinentry-emojiprompt as the password prompt for
.BR gpg (1)
you need to configure
.BR gpg-agent (1).
For example by creating the file \fB~/.gnupg/gpg-agent.conf\fR and writing into
it the following line:
.
.P
.B pinentry-program /path/to/pinentry-emojiprompt
.
.P
Note that the path to the pinentry-emojiprompt executable depends on how you
installed it and/or how it was packaged.
.
.P
After updating the configuration, restart the gpg-agent:
.RS
.B gpg-connect-agent reloadagent /bye
.RE
.
.
.SH FEATURES
.P
pinentry-emojiprompt provides all standard pinentry functionality with enhanced
visual feedback:
.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBEmoji feedback:\fR Shows emojis instead of asterisks while typing passwords
.IP \(bu 2
\fBTwo-stage verification:\fR Press Enter once to see verification emojis, again to submit
.IP \(bu 2
\fBWayland native:\fR Full Wayland support with layer-shell protocol
.IP \(bu 2
\fBTTY fallback:\fR Automatically uses TTY mode when Wayland is unavailable
.IP \(bu 2
\fBCustomizable:\fR Configure emoji sets and colors via config file
.
.
.SH IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETENESS
.P
As of writing, pinentry-emojiprompt implements the most important components of
the pinentry protocol to be viable for day-to-day usage.
The emoji feedback system is fully integrated with all password prompts.
However more advanced pinentry features may not yet be supported.
Patches are welcome.
.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.P
pinentry-emojiprompt uses the same configuration file as emojiprompt.
See
.BR emojiprompt (5)
for detailed configuration options.
.
.P
Example configuration for GPG use:
.RS
.EX
[general]
emoji-count = 5;
emoji-table = '🔒,🔑,🛡️,🔐,🔓';

[colours]
background = 0x1a1b26;
text = 0xffffff;
.EE
.RE
.
.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.P
pinentry-emojiprompt will exit with one of the following codes:
.
.RS 1.2i
.TS
tab(@), left, box;
c | c
rB | l.
\fBValue\fR@\fBExplanation\fR
_
0@Successful operation (for "ok", "not-ok" and "cancel").
_
1@An error occurred.
.TE
.RE
.
.
.SH EXAMPLE USAGE
.P
Once configured, pinentry-emojiprompt will be used automatically for:
.
.IP \(bu 2
Decrypting files:
.RS
.B gpg --decrypt file.gpg
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
Signing commits:
.RS
.B git commit -S -m "Signed commit"
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
SSH key operations (if gpg-agent handles SSH):
.RS
.B ssh-add -l
.RE
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
.P
.MT github.com/nilp0inter
nilp0inter
.ME
.P
Based on wayprompt by Leon Henrik Plickat.
.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR emojiprompt (1),
.BR emojiprompt (5),
.BR gpg (1),
.BR gpg-agent (1)